content/docs/operations/authentication/OIDC.md, before:

---
title: OIDC
weight: 2
---

You configure OIDC (OpenID Connect) for MKE 4 through the `authentication.oidc`
section of the MKE configuration file.

OIDC example configuration:

```yaml
authentication:
  enabled: true
  oidc:
    enabled: true
    issuer: https://dev-94406016.okta.com
    clientID: 0oedtjcjrjWab3zlD5d4
    clientSecret: DFA9NYLfE1QxwCSFkZunssh2HCx16kDl41k9tIBtFZaNcqyEGle8yZPtMBesyomD
    redirectURI: http://dex.example.com:32000/callback
```

## Configure OIDC service for MKE

In the MKE configuration file `authentication.oidc` section, enable your
OIDC service by setting `enabled` to `true`. Use the remaining fields, which
are defined in the following table, to configure your chosen OIDC provider.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  For information on how to obtain the field values, refer to [OIDC provider setup](../../../tutorials/authentication-provider-setup/oidc-provider-setup).
{{< /callout >}}

| Field          | Description                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `issuer`       | OIDC provider root URL.                                           |
| `clientID`     | ID from the IdP application configuration.                        |
| `clientSecret` | Secret from the IdP application configuration.                    |
| `redirect URI` | URI to which the provider will return successful authentications. |

## Test authentication flow

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  To test authentication flow, ports `5556` (dex) and `5555` (example-app) must be externally available.
{{< /callout >}}

1. Navigate to `http://{MKE hostname}:5555/login`
2. Click **Login** to display the login page.
3. Select **Log in with OIDC**.
4. Enter your credentials and click **Sign In**. If authentication is successful,
you will be redirected to the client applications home page.

Commit message:

[BOP-1341] Update authentication (#103)
Co-authored-by: Kory <57411706+KoryKessel-Mirantis@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/operations/authentication/OIDC.md, after:

---
title: OIDC
weight: 2
---

You configure OIDC (OpenID Connect) for MKE 4 through the `authentication.oidc`
section of the MKE configuration file.

OIDC example configuration:

```yaml
authentication:
  enabled: true
  oidc:
    enabled: true
    issuer: https://dev-94406016.okta.com
    clientID: 0oedtjcjrjWab3zlD5d4
    clientSecret: DFA9NYLfE1QxwCSFkZunssh2HCx16kDl41k9tIBtFZaNcqyEGle8yZPtMBesyomD
    redirectURI: http://dex.example.com:32000/callback
```

## Configure OIDC service for MKE

In the MKE configuration file `authentication.oidc` section, enable your
OIDC service by setting `enabled` to `true`. Use the remaining fields, which
are defined in the following table, to configure your chosen OIDC provider.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
For information on how to obtain the field values, refer to the [setting up Okta as an OIDC provider example](../../../tutorials/authentication-provider-setup/setting-up-okta-as-an-oidc-provider).
{{< /callout >}}

| Field          | Description                                                          |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `issuer`       | OIDC provider root URL.                                              |
| `clientID`     | ID from the IdP application configuration.                           |
| `clientSecret` | Secret from the IdP application configuration.                       |
| `redirectURI`  | URI to which the provider will return successful authentications to. |

For more information, refer to the official DEX documentation
[OIDC configuration](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/oidc/#configuration).
